18.12.2023
DNS
1. Name Resolution:
   Adding an entry in cat >> /etc/hosts
    Adding an entry in this format:
        192.168.1.11    db
    adds an IP address of System B in the hosts directory of System A
    - this way system A will recognise System B by its name and mentioning 
    its IP Address will not be required
    

2. DNS Server
    DNS Server contains all the entries of all the IP Adresses so that we can manage them centrally
    cat /etc/resolv.conf
    Adding an entry in this format (This IP below belongs to the nameserver's ):
        nameserver  192.168.1.100

3. You can still have entries in your etc/hosts file for your own use.
    CONDITIONS:
    ENTRIES IN BOTH FILES
    If you have entry (of an IP Adress) in your DNS servere as well as your hosts file,
    the hosts first looks in /etc/hosts file and the then the nameserver.
   However, this can be chnaged from
    cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
   Adding an entry in this format:
        hosts:  files dns
    (The above entry says commands to look for local file first and then the dns
    "file" refers to /etc/hosts file and "dns" refers to DNS Server)

    ENTRY IN NONE OF THE FILES
    If you do not have an entry in both places, i.e,. the /etc/hosts as well as the nameserver
    You can add a nameserver entry in your cat >> /etc/resolv.conf
    Adding an entry in this format:
        nameserver  192.168.1.100
        nameserver  8.8.8.8
    
    The above nameserver 8.8.8.8 is a common public belongs is hosted by google that know all website on the internet

4. Domain nameserver
    There are top level domain names like the .com, .net, .edu, .org, .io

    Subdomains: like maps.google.com

5. Record Types:
    A Record
    AAAA Record
    CNAME Record

6. Lookups:
    nslookup
    Just like ping nslookup is also a way to query a hostname from a dns servere
    remember nslookup does not consider the entry in local etc host file
    So, it will not file it if you add any entry in your local etc host file
    This only queries dns server

    dig
    This is a tool to test dns name Resolution. It returns more details

19.12.2023
Next Vid
Network Namespaces

If your host is a house then namespaces are room assigned to your children
The room provides privacy but you as a parent have the access to in all the rooms

DOCKER NETWORKING











   

    
